>> Mike: As we start working with
these things, and as we move on and
talk about the third
type of service workers,
you'll notice that there are lots
of things that we can't do.
And this is in order to make it so
that we are set up for
success when building programs that
do multiple things in parallel.
And my background, the first
programming language I learnt was C,
and I brought a lot of
parallel programming in C++.
And the idea there was you could
share state between things,
but there are many places where you'd
basically have to slam on the brakes,
wait for any stragglers to catch up.
Then sync across all of
the processes that are running, and
then you can sort of allow
everyone to push forward.
So if it were a game it would be like
all of the players must finish level
3 before any can proceed to level 4.
And if those players are responsible for
say, allowing you to scroll smoothly
through a webpage, that is now halted and
it's prevented from doing anything.
So that won't work for JavaScript,
and part of what happens here is we have
limitations in terms of what we can do.
So that the majority of
the code that we write
will kind of just work the way
we expect it to work, and
you're not set up to the point where
you can cause deadlocks, for example.
So the first thing you're gonna notice
is anything that has a synchronized API,
like a local storage,
where you can just got an item and
then in the next line of code you have
the value of that item in local stores.
Anything synchronous is off the table.
You cannot touch the DOM,
because that has a synchronous API, and
you cannot touch cookies.
Now, you could use that post
message on message dance
to ask the application to read something
out of the cookie and then send it back.
So there are workarounds, but
you have to ultimately let the main
application thread do the work.
You'll notice that we have properties
available called location and navigator.
And while there are a location and
navigator property on the window object,
these are slightly different.
They're sort of whittled down so
that they only do what you're
allowed to do in service workers.
We do have setInterval and setTimeout,
which are really important, and
we're gonna end up using them.
We have fetch and Promise,
also really important.
And then three things
that facilitate offline
support, realtime pushing of
data from server to client,
and IndexedDB, which we will
get to at the end of tomorrow.
That is a no SQL database
that lives in the browser.
If you've ever used MongoDB,
you have something like MongoDB
in browsers since IE10.
It sends IE11 polyfillable in IE10,
which is pretty amazing.
And the reason indexedDB works and
local storage does not is
indexedDB has an asynchronous API.
So you ask it for data and
provide it a call back which it will
invoke once the data is retrieved.
And that can be managed with
multiple things happening at once.
Basically you can wait for a function
to run to completion and then eventually
get around to invoking that callback.
So you can think of it almost
like local Ajax, right?
You ask for something, and then shortly
after, he will get something back.